.TH N8NCTL 1 "October 2025" "n8nctl 1.0.0" "n8nctl Manual"
.SH NAME
n8nctl \- Professional n8n deployment and management tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B n8nctl
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B n8nctl
is a comprehensive tool for deploying and managing n8n workflow automation in production environments. It provides a complete suite of commands for installation, backup, monitoring, and maintenance of n8n instances using Docker Compose.
.PP
The tool supports both BashingUI (enhanced interface with gum) and Basic UI modes, with automatic fallback based on system capabilities and user preferences.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Setup & Installation
.TP
.B init
Run the interactive setup wizard to configure n8n for first-time deployment. Requires sudo/root privileges.
.TP
.B preflight
Check system requirements and verify all prerequisites are met. Requires sudo/root privileges.
.SS Service Management
.TP
.B start
Start all n8n services with automatic detection of local or external database mode.
.TP
.B stop
Stop all n8n services gracefully.
.TP
.B restart
Restart all n8n services.
.TP
.B status
Show the current status of all n8n services including uptime and health.
.TP
.B scale \fIcount\fR
Scale the number of worker instances to the specified count.
.SS Logs & Monitoring
.TP
.B logs [\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIservice\fR]
Advanced log management. Subcommands: tail (follow logs), show (display recent logs), search (search pattern), errors (show only errors), export (save logs to file), list (list available services).
.TP
.B health
Run comprehensive health checks on all services and infrastructure.
.SS Operations
.TP
.B backup
Create a comprehensive backup including database, configuration files, and workflows.
.TP
.B restore \fIfile\fR
Restore from a backup file. Supports local and S3-stored backups.
.TP
.B migrate
Perform safe version migration with automatic pre-migration backup and rollback capability. Requires sudo.
.TP
.B upgrade
Upgrade to the latest n8n version with pre-upgrade checks and verification. Requires sudo.
.SS Utilities
.TP
.B test
Run comprehensive deployment tests to verify system functionality.
.TP
.B validate
Validate environment configuration and check for common issues.
.TP
.B version
Display the current n8n version and build information.
.TP
.B shell [\fIservice\fR]
Open an interactive shell in the specified service container (default: n8n-web).
.TP
.B exec \fIservice\fR \fIcommand\fR
Execute a command in the specified service container.
.TP
.B help
Display command usage information.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/n8nctl/config
User configuration file following XDG Base Directory Specification.
.TP
.I /opt/n8n/.env
Main environment configuration file.
.SH UI MODES
.B n8nctl
supports two UI modes:
.TP
.B BashingUI
Enhanced interface using the 'gum' tool from Charm.sh.
.TP
.B Basic
Clean fallback interface with ANSI colors.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B sudo n8nctl init
Run first-time interactive setup.
.TP
.B n8nctl status
Show current service status.
.TP
.B n8nctl logs tail n8n-web
Follow logs from the n8n-web service in real-time.
.TP
.B n8nctl logs search "error"
Search all logs for error messages.
.TP
.B n8nctl backup
Create a backup of the entire system.
.TP
.B n8nctl restore /tmp/n8n-backup-20241018.tgz
Restore from a specific backup file.
.TP
.B n8nctl scale 5
Scale to 5 worker instances.
.TP
.B sudo n8nctl migrate
Perform a safe version migration with automatic backup.
.SH AUTHOR
Created by David Nagtzaam <https://davidnagtzaam.com>
.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License 3.0 (GPL-3.0)
